Add the 0.4.14 press release (#55)
reactos/web-content: content/project-news/reactos-0414-released.md

---
title:       "ReactOS 0.4.14 released"
author:      "ReactOS Team"
date:        XXXX-XX-XX
tags:        [ "release" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/thumb.png"
---

> The ReactOS Team is pleased to announce the release of version 0.4.14.

Reviewer: Slap a disclaimer on top
```suggestion
> ### **Disclaimer:** It took us more than a year for this release and during that time we presented you a lot of awesome news regarding our current development progress in our blog and on the social media as well. Consider this an intermediate / bugfix release, which does not include latest features we advertised earlier.

The ReactOS Team is pleased to announce the release of version 0.4.14.
```

Stanislav Motylkov still continues on working on Xbox boot support ranging from fixes patches and other updates brought by him. In addition to that Hermès Bélusca-Maïto fixed some old bugs notably a corruption in the CONSRV memory when converting
input events back to ANSI and a bug in HAL where the system lead into an assertion failure sporadically.

## Third Party Syncs
ReactOS is a FOSS (Free or Open Source) operating system that abides by the general rule of being a free operating system, as in free beer, and open source where people can study the OS and contribute with code.
As such, ReactOS shares modules and code from other third-party open source projects are being regularly updated by the ReactOS developers. The following recent syncs as of this release are follows.

* Wine Staging 4.18 user mode DLLs by Amine Khaldi
* mpg123 1.25.13 by Thomas Faber
* libjpeg 9d by Thomas Faber
* mbedtls 2.7.14 by Thomas Faber
* libtiff 4.1.0 by Thomas Faber
* ACPICA 20200326 by Thomas Faber
* BtrFS 1.7.2 by Pierre Schweitzer and Victor Perevertkin
* glu32 9.0.1 by Masanori Ogino
* Updated root certificates by Thomas Faber

## Statistics

> JIRA Issues fixed of this release: 371
> Number of commits as of this release: >1690

Reviewer: Ah, the padding is important actually
```suggestion
JIRA Issues fixed of this release: 371  
Number of commits as of this release: >1690  
```

---
title:       "ReactOS 0.4.14 released"
author:      "ReactOS Team"
date:        XXXX-XX-XX
tags:        [ "release" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/thumb.png"
---

> > ### **Disclaimer:** It took us more than a year for this release and during that time we presented you a lot of awesome news regarding our current development progress in our blog and on the social media as well. Consider this an intermediate / bugfix release, which does not include latest features we advertised earlier.

Reviewer: Tweak for disclaimer
```suggestion
> #### ⚠️ **Disclaimer:** It took us more than a year for this release and during that time we presented you a lot of awesome news regarding our current development progress in our blog and on the social media as well. Consider this an intermediate / bugfix release, which does not include latest features we advertised earlier.
```

> > #### ⚠️ **Disclaimer:** It took us more than a year for this release and during that time we presented you a lot of awesome news regarding our current development progress in our blog and on the social media as well. Consider this an intermediate / bugfix release, which does not include latest features we advertised earlier.

Reviewer: Suggestion by @HBelusca, also make font better
```suggestion
> <span style="font-size: larger">⚠️ **Disclaimer:** It took us more than a year for this release and during that time we presented you a lot of awesome news regarding our current development progress in our blog and on the social media as well. Consider this a maintenance release, which does not include latest features we advertised earlier.</span>
```

> > <span style="font-size: larger">⚠️ **Disclaimer:** It took us more than a year for this release and during that time we presented you a lot of awesome news regarding our current development progress in our blog and on the social media as well. Consider this a maintenance release, which does not include latest features we advertised earlier.</span>

Reviewer: Fix grammar
```suggestion
> <span style="font-size: larger">⚠️ **Disclaimer:** It took us more than a year for this release and during that time we have presented you a lot of awesome news regarding our current development progress in our blog and on the social media as well. Consider this a maintenance release, which does not include latest features we advertised earlier.</span>
```

> > <span style="font-size: larger">⚠️ **Disclaimer:** It took us more than a year for this release and during that time we have presented you a lot of awesome news regarding our current development progress in our blog and on the social media as well. Consider this a maintenance release, which does not include latest features we advertised earlier.</span>
> 
> The ReactOS Team is pleased to announce the release of version 0.4.14.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ReactOS Team is pleased to announce the release of version 0.4.14.
```

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/banner.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/banner.png" >}}

## "Send-To" feature and Shell improvements
The main highlight of this release is the incremental amount of improvements done to the Shell component of ReactOS, a highly vital model responsible for the interaction with the system and the user.
Katayama Hirofumi MZ is the pioneer of the "Send-To" implementation, a feature of the Shell which the user can send files or directories to a certain location. 

In addition, "Open File Location" and "Open Command prompt here" were also implemented thanks to him.
Apart from the aforementioned features, let's not forget the bug fixes that affected the operability of the Shell.
Katayama Hirofumi MZ fixed the scroll selection and Mark Jansen improved some COM (Component Object Model) interfaces, so that certain drag and drop regressions could be fixed.
The following implementations of "Send-To" and "Open File Location" features are shown in the following screenshots below.

> {{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/shell.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/shell.png" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that it took us over a year to get this release in shape and fix regressions.
As such, ReactOS 0.4.14 does not contain the very latest developments we advertised in 2021 on our blog and on social media.
Consider this a maintenance release, and stay tuned for what's coming next!

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/shell.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/shell.png" >}}
```

The developers squash the bugs in the kernel to offer overall stability and better experience with each release and here we noted several improvements brought to the kernel. Various bugs to the Memory Manager module have been fixed thanks to Thomas Faber and
speaking of the aforementioned module, Vadim Galyant began the work for support of PAE (Physical Address Extension) and did some work for the Memory Manager sections rewrite.

Timo Kreuzer added CRT (C Run-Time) exception handling by importing related code from WINE. This allows for 64-bit development to go further as various bugs and random hangs in 64-bit system have been resolved. The I/O manager module of the kernel has seen
major improvements with the implementation of letter assigning to disks rewritten by Pierre Schweitzer and Ft volumes are properly checked where Unix drives were not assigned a drive letter. Victor Perevertkin fixed a bug in storage class PnP driver (classpnp.sys) 
and both Timo Kreuzer and Thomas Faber fixes some buffer overflows vulnerabilities. To finish with, Eric Kohl improved the device action worker code in I/O.

> Let's not forget the PnP (Plug n' Play) manager of the kernel which is also and important part not only in regard of stability the usability of the system to a plethora of hardware. Vadim Galyant added the initial headers implementation of the Resources Arbiter library which it can be used by the bus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's not forget the PnP (Plug n' Play) manager of the kernel which is also and important part not only in regard of stability the usability of the system to a plethora of hardware. Vadim Galyant added the initial headers implementation of the Resources Arbiter library which can be used by the bus
```

> drivers such like ACPI and PCI and legacy PIC HAL. In addition to that Vadim implemented debug code both in PnP and I/O managers whereas Eric Kohl improved the PnP manager to map device capabilities to capability flags. Thomas Faber fixed a critical bug that could

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
drivers like ACPI, PCI or legacy PIC HAL. In addition to that Vadim implemented debug code both in PnP and I/O managers whereas Eric Kohl improved the PnP manager to map device capabilities to capability flags. Thomas Faber fixed a critical bug that could
```

cause memory corruption in the kernel space and fixed a bad IRP (I/O request packet) handling that caused a BSoD (Blue Screen of Death) on first generation Xbox console machine with USB enabled. 

The Kernel Debugger (KD) and related modules have also received updates from developers and contributors alike. Dmitry Borisov added ComPort library for NEC PC-98 which is fundemantal in the further development and support of NEC series. Hermès Bélusca-Maïto has finished the support for debug filters, improved `cregs` and `tss` (present only in GCC debug builds) command

> lines and also he rewrote the TSS handling code and squashed various bugs with it, namely the issue with KDBG backtrace when a TSS switch happened during execution. Furthermore, Jérôme Gardou alongside with Hervé Poussineau brought some fixes and improvements to the KDBG module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
, rewrote the TSS handling code and squashed various bugs with it. Namely the issue with KDBG backtrace when a TSS switch happened during execution. Furthermore, Jérôme Gardou alongside with Hervé Poussineau brought some fixes and improvements to the KDBG module.
```

---
title:       "ReactOS 0.4.14 released"
author:      "ReactOS Team"

> date:        XXXX-XX-XX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date:        2021-12-16
```

tags:        [ "release" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/thumb.png"
---

The ReactOS Team is pleased to announce the release of version 0.4.14.
As with every other release, we're regularly noting improvements and updates to keep you in touch with what is being done to ReactOS.
In this release, improvements range from FreeLoader fixes, Shell features, kernel fixes, NetKVM VirtIO bringup, further work to the Xbox port and support for NEC PC-9800.

> {{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/banner.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/banner.png" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that it took us over a year to get this release in shape and fix regressions.
As such, ReactOS 0.4.14 does not contain the very latest developments we advertised in 2021 on our blog and on social media.
Consider this a maintenance release, and stay tuned for what's coming next!

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/banner.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/banner.png" >}}
```

As such, ReactOS 0.4.14 does not contain the very latest developments we advertised in 2021 on our blog and on social media.
Consider this a maintenance release, and stay tuned for what's coming next!

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/banner.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/banner.png" >}}

> ## "Send-To" feature and Shell improvements
> The main highlight of this release is the incremental amount of improvements done to the Shell component of ReactOS, a highly vital model responsible for the interaction with the system and the user.
> Katayama Hirofumi MZ is the pioneer of the "Send-To" implementation, a feature of the Shell which the user can send files or directories to a certain location. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## "Send To" feature and Shell improvements
One of the main highlights of this release is the amount of improvements done to the Shell component, which makes up a vital part of the ReactOS user experience.
Katayama Hirofumi MZ is the pioneer of the "Send To" implementation, a feature of the Shell that can be used to send files or directories to a certain location.
```

In addition, "Open File Location" and "Open Command prompt here" were also implemented thanks to him.
Apart from the aforementioned features, let's not forget the bug fixes that affected the operability of the Shell.
Katayama Hirofumi MZ fixed the scroll selection and Mark Jansen improved some COM (Component Object Model) interfaces, so that certain drag and drop regressions could be fixed.

> The following implementations of "Send-To" and "Open File Location" features are shown in the following screenshots below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The implementations of "Send To" and "Open File Location" are shown in the screenshots below:
```

> Note that it took us over a year to get this release in shape and fix regressions.
> As such, ReactOS 0.4.14 does not contain the very latest developments we advertised in 2021 on our blog and on social media.
> Consider this a maintenance release, and stay tuned for what's coming next!
> 
> {{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/shell.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/shell.png" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/shell.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/shell.png" >}}
```

## NEC PC-9800 boot support

> NEC PC-9800 (or PC-98 in short) is a series of 16-bit and 32-bit Japanese computers developed and manufactured by NEC.
> As those type of hardware use x86 architecture as its main core, this could bring up an advantage for ReactOS as in porting the system on various architectures and at the same time finding and catching bugs in the kernel mode modules of ReactOS.
> 
> Dmitry Borisov, a new ReactOS contributor, partook in the scene of helping getting the PC-98 port complete.
> While there are stuff left to be done in the development of PC-98 boot support, Dmitry Borisov made great strides to make ReactOS booting on PC-98.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NEC PC-9800 (or PC-98 in short) is a series of 16-bit and 32-bit Japanese computers developed and manufactured by NEC.
As that type of hardware is based on x86 processors, it is a relatively easy porting target.
Nevertheless, every port to another architecture opens up possibilities for finding and fixing bugs in the kernel modules of ReactOS.

Dmitry Borisov, a new ReactOS contributor, helped to get the PC-98 port in shape.
While there is stuff left to be done in the development of PC-98 boot support, Dmitry Borisov made great strides to get ReactOS booting on that platform.
```

The following screenshot below demonstrates ReactOS booting on Neko Project 21/W emulator.

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/nec98.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/nec98.png" >}}

## ICMP improvements
Internet Control Message Protocol (or ICMP by short) is a protocol used by network device drivers to send network information such as errors or log status.
The implementation was rather scarce and incomplete with pieces of code unimplemented or unfinished.

> The IP Helper module majorly uses this protocol and as a matter of that, it brought a lot of issues and bugs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The IP Helper module primarily uses this protocol and as a matter of that, it brought a lot of issues and bugs. 
```

> Thanks to Victor Perevertkin and with the help of Tim Crawford, the ICMP protocol implementation has seen lots of improvements, that is, ranging from the implementation of
> IOCTL_ICMP_ECHO_REQUEST I/O control code as well as rewriting Icmp** function routines. Thanks to that the network device drivers can handle ICMP requests in a correct manner. In the screenshot below here is tracert command utility that outputs complete information thanks to the work done to ICMP.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Thanks to Victor Perevertkin, and with the help of Tim Crawford, the ICMP protocol implementation has seen lots of improvements.
These range from the implementation of the IOCTL_ICMP_ECHO_REQUEST I/O control code to a full  rewrite of the Icmp** routines.
As a result, the network device drivers can now handle ICMP requests in a correct manner.
This is proven in the screenshot below, which shows the tracert command-line utility now outputting complete information.
```

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/icmp.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/icmp.png" >}}

## Kernel improvements

> The NT kernel of ReactOS is the heart that is primarly responsible for the well functioning of the system and communication with the bare metal. The stability of the system drastically relies on the robustness of the kernel, that is, a kernel with less bugs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The NT kernel of ReactOS is the heart that is responsible for the well functioning of the system and communication with the bare metal.
The stability of the system drastically relies on the robustness of the kernel.
Every bug counts here.
```

> The developers squash the bugs in the kernel to offer overall stability and better experience with each release and here we noted several improvements brought to the kernel. Various bugs to the Memory Manager module have been fixed thanks to Thomas Faber and
> speaking of the aforementioned module, Vadim Galyant began the work for support of PAE (Physical Address Extension) and did some work for the Memory Manager sections rewrite.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

With every release, the developers squash bugs in the kernel to offer a better overall stability and experience.
ReactOS 0.4.14 comes with several improvements to the Memory Manager thanks to Thomas Faber.
Speaking of the aforementioned module, Vadim Galyant did some initial work on PAE (Physical Address Extension) and contributed towards the Memory Manager sections rewrite.

```

> Timo Kreuzer added CRT (C Run-Time) exception handling by importing related code from WINE. This allows for 64-bit development to go further as various bugs and random hangs in 64-bit system have been resolved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Timo Kreuzer added CRT (C Run-Time) exception handling by importing related code from WINE. This allows 64-bit development to proceed as various bugs and random hangs on 64-bit systems have been resolved.
```

drivers like ACPI, PCI or legacy PIC HAL. In addition to that Vadim implemented debug code both in PnP and I/O managers whereas Eric Kohl improved the PnP manager to map device capabilities to capability flags. Thomas Faber fixed a critical bug that could
cause memory corruption in the kernel space and fixed a bad IRP (I/O request packet) handling that caused a BSoD (Blue Screen of Death) on first generation Xbox console machine with USB enabled. 

The Kernel Debugger (KD) and related modules have also received updates from developers and contributors alike. Dmitry Borisov added ComPort library for NEC PC-98 which is fundemantal in the further development and support of NEC series. Hermès Bélusca-Maïto has finished the support for debug filters, improved `cregs` and `tss` (present only in GCC debug builds) command,
rewrote the TSS handling code and squashed various bugs with it. Namely the issue with KDBG backtrace when a TSS switch happened during execution. Furthermore, Jérôme Gardou alongside with Hervé Poussineau brought some fixes and improvements to the KDBG module.

## NetKVM VirtIO bringup

> NetKVM VirtIO is a NDIS 5 compatible driver developed by Red Hat Inc. which allows fast VirtIO networking in virtual machine software such as QEMU and other KVM hardware accelerated virtual machines.
> Nguyen Trung Khanh, a ReactOS contributor, took over the Benjamin Aerni's work at importing the driver into the source tree of ReactOS and for this matter this heavily benefits the networking stack.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NetKVM VirtIO is an NDIS 5 compatible driver developed by Red Hat Inc., which allows fast VirtIO networking in virtual machine software such as QEMU and other KVM hardware accelerated virtual machines.
Nguyen Trung Khanh, a ReactOS contributor, took over Benjamin Aerni's work of importing the driver into the source tree of ReactOS.
This provides ReactOS with support for another network interface out of the box.
```

Here is a comparison between 0.4.13 (with the obsolete fonts used and loaded in memory) and 0.4.14.

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/misc.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/misc.png" >}}

The 64-bit ReactOS port is extensively being worked on by Timo Kreuzer with continuous work on interrupt handling and other hardware issues like USB and networking issues in x64 build.
Stanislav Motylkov still continues on working on Xbox boot support ranging from fixes patches and other updates brought by him. In addition to that Hermès Bélusca-Maïto fixed some old bugs notably a corruption in the CONSRV memory when converting
input events back to ANSI and a bug in HAL where the system lead into an assertion failure sporadically.

## Third Party Syncs
ReactOS is a FOSS (Free or Open Source) operating system that abides by the general rule of being a free operating system, as in free beer, and open source where people can study the OS and contribute with code.

> As such, ReactOS shares modules and code from other third-party open source projects are being regularly updated by the ReactOS developers. The following recent syncs as of this release are follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As such, ReactOS shares modules and code from other third-party open source projects are regularly updated by the ReactOS developers. The following syncs are part of this release:
```

* Wine Staging 4.18 user mode DLLs by Amine Khaldi
* mpg123 1.25.13 by Thomas Faber
* libjpeg 9d by Thomas Faber
* mbedtls 2.7.14 by Thomas Faber
* libtiff 4.1.0 by Thomas Faber
* ACPICA 20200326 by Thomas Faber
* BtrFS 1.7.2 by Pierre Schweitzer and Victor Perevertkin
* glu32 9.0.1 by Masanori Ogino
* Updated root certificates by Thomas Faber

## Statistics

> JIRA Issues fixed of this release: 371  
> Number of commits as of this release: >1690  
> Oldest issue fixed as of this release: [CORE-3071](https://jira.reactos.org/browse/CORE-3071)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
JIRA Issues fixed: 371  
Number of commits: >1690  
Oldest issue fixed: [CORE-3071](https://jira.reactos.org/browse/CORE-3071)
```

* [The official Changelog for the 0.4.14 release](/wiki/ChangeLog-0.4.14)
* [The less technical Community Changelog for 0.4.14](/wiki/Community_Changelog-0.4.14)
* [Application Tests for 0.4.14](/wiki/Tests_for_0.4.14)

> [releases/0.4.14](???) branch was forked from [master](https://github.com/reactos/reactos) on 2020-04-24 after 0.4.14-dev-1562-g4d2d2db

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[releases/0.4.14](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/tree/releases/0.4.14) branch was forked from [master](https://github.com/reactos/reactos) on 2020-04-24 after 0.4.14-dev-1562-g4d2d2db
```

---
title:       "ReactOS 0.4.14 released"
author:      "ReactOS Team"
date:        XXXX-XX-XX
tags:        [ "release" ]
banner:      "null"
---

The ReactOS Team is pleased to announce the release of version 0.4.14.
As with every other release, we're regularly noting improvements and updates to keep you in touch with what is being done to ReactOS.
In this release, improvements range from FreeLoader fixes, Shell features, kernel fixes, NEC PC-9800 support, NetKVM VirtIO bringup and to further work to the Xbox port and miscellaneous stuff.

## Send To feature and Shell improvements
The main highlight of this release is the incremental amount of improvements done to the Shell component of ReactOS, a highly vital model responsible for the interaction with the system and the user.
Katayama Hirofumi MZ is the pioneer of Send To implementation, a feature of the Shell which the user can send files or directories to a certain location. 

In addition, "Open File Location" and "Open Command prompt here" were also implemented thanks to him.

> Apart from the aforementioned features, let's not forget the bug fixes that affected the operability of the Shell. Katayama Hirofumi MZ fixed the scroll selection and Mark Jansen improved some COM (Component Object Model) interfaces so that certain drag and drop regressions could be fixed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Apart from the aforementioned features, let's not forget the bug fixes that affected the operability of the Shell.
Katayama Hirofumi MZ fixed the scroll selection and Mark Jansen improved some COM (Component Object Model) interfaces so that certain drag and drop regressions could be fixed.
```

> Furthermore, Mark Jansen added support for custom objects defined with UICLSID. The following implementations of Send To and Open File Location features are shown in the following screenshots below.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Furthermore, Mark Jansen added support for custom objects defined with UICLSID.
The following implementations of Send To and Open File Location features are shown in the following screenshots below.
```

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/file-location.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/file-location.png" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/send-to.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/send-to.png" >}}

## NEC PC-9800 boot support
NEC PC-9800 (or PC-98 in short) is a series of 16-bit and 32-bit Japanese computers developed and manufactured by NEC.
As those type of hardware use x86 architecture as its main core, this could bring up an advantage for ReactOS as in porting the system on various architectures and at the same time finding and catching bugs in the kernel mode modules of ReactOS.

> A ReactOS contributor by the name Dmitry Borisov partake in the scene of helping getting the PC-98 port complete. While there are stuff left to be done in the development of PC-98 boot support, Dmitry Borisov made great strides to make ReactOS booting on PC-98.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A ReactOS contributor by the name Dmitry Borisov partake in the scene of helping getting the PC-98 port complete.
While there are stuff left to be done in the development of PC-98 boot support, Dmitry Borisov made great strides to make ReactOS booting on PC-98.
```

> The following screenshot below demonstrates ReactOS booting on NEC PC-98 emulator.

Reviewer: Neko Project 21/W actually.

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/nec98.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/nec98.png" >}}

## ICMP improvements

> Internet Control Message Protocol (or ICMP by short) is a protocol used by network device drivers to send network information such as errors or log status. The implementation was rather scarce and incomplete with pieces of code unimplemented or unfinished.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Internet Control Message Protocol (or ICMP by short) is a protocol used by network device drivers to send network information such as errors or log status.
The implementation was rather scarce and incomplete with pieces of code unimplemented or unfinished.
```

The IP Helper module majorly uses this protocol and as a matter of that, it brought a lot of issues and bugs. 

But Victor Perevertkin and with the help of Tim Crawford, the ICMP protocol implementation has seen lots of improvements, that is, ranging from the implementation of
IOCTL_ICMP_ECHO_REQUEST I/O control code as well as rewriting Icmp** function routines. Thanks to that the network device drivers can handle ICMP requests in a correct manner. In the screenshot below here is tracert command utility that outputs complete information thanks to the work done to ICMP.

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/icmp.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/icmp.png" >}}

## Mount Manager improvements
As our goal is to be compatible not only in terms of software and device drivers with Windows but also in underlying design and architecture of Windows components. 

As such, the Mount Manager module has seen major fixes to bugs and issues that prevented the component from functioning properly.

> Thanks to Pierre Schweitzer the DOS (Disk Operating System) devices are now properly handled by the Mount Manager, work queued items are corretly managed when ReactOS is shutting down and the Mount Manager can now assign drive letters to new devices.

Reviewer 2: Mount manager may be removed from the release due to regression. So it's possible it will really be included only in 0.4.15

The developers squash the bugs in the kernel to offer overall stability and better experience with each release and here we noted several improvements brought to the kernel. Various bugs to the Memory Manager module have been fixed thanks to Thomas Faber and
speaking of the aforementioned module, Vadim Galyant began the work for support of PAE (Physical Address Extension) and did some work for the Memory Manager sections rewrite.

Timo Kreuzer added CRT (C Run-Time) exception handling by importing related code from WINE. This allows for 64-bit development to go further as various bugs and random hangs in 64-bit system have been resolved. The I/O manager module of the kernel has seen
major improvements with the implementation of letter assigning to disks rewritten by Pierre Schweitzer and Ft volumes are properly checked where Unix drives were not assigned a drive letter. Victor Perevertkin fixed a bug in I/O manager that affected the class
PnP driver and both Timo Kreuzer and Thomas Faber fixes some buffer overflows vulnerabilities. To finish with, Eric Kohl improved the device action worker code in I/O.

> Let's not forget the PnP (Plug n' Play) manager of the kernel which is also and important part not only in regard of stability the usability of the system to a plethora of hardware. Vadim Galyant added a Resources Arbiter library which it can be used by the bus

Reviewer 2: Yeah, arbiter library has only headers right now

cause memory corruption in the kernel space and fixed a bad IRP (I/O request packet) handling that caused a BSoD (Blue Screen of Death) on first generation Xbox console machine with USB enabled. 

The Kernel Debugger (KD) and related modules have also received updates from developers and contributors alike. Dmitry Borisov added ComPort library for NEC PC-98 which is fundemantal in the further development and support of NEC series. Hermes Belusca-Maito has finished the support for debug filters, improved cregs and tss command
lines and also he rewrote the TSS handling code and squashed various bugs with it. Furthermore, Jerome Gardou brought some fixes and improvements to the KDBG module.

## NetKVM VirtIO bringup
NetKVM VirtIO is a NDIS 5 compatible driver developed by Red Hat Inc. which allows fast VirtIO networking in virtual machine software such as QEMU and other KVM hardware accelerated virtual machines.
Nguyen Trung Khanh, a ReactOS contributor, imported the driver into the source tree of ReactOS and for this matter this heavily benefits the networking stack.

## Miscellaneous changes & improvements

> Other areas of ReactOS infrastructure have received lots improvements, ranging from device drivers to software applications of ReactOS by various developers and contributors. Notably FreeLoader, the ReactOS' bootloader, received incremental fixes and further support improvements. As such Hermes Belusca-Maito added support for booting Linux 64-bit systems and fixed an issue where

Reviewer 5: Also, that's for booting Linux (32 and 64 bits?) from the x64 version of FreeLdr.

the aforementioned dialog in question.

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/hotplug.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/hotplug.png" >}}

What is particularly different between 0.4.13 and this release is the sleek performance due to obsolete fonts removed in ReactOS by Katayama Hirofumi MZ. This both reduced the binary size of this release and the RAM consumption.
Here is a comparison between 0.4.13 (with the obsolete fonts used and loaded in memory) and 0.4.14.

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/0413-taskmgr.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/0413-taskmgr.png" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/0414-taskmgr.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/0414-taskmgr.png" >}}

The 64-bit ReactOS port is extensively being worked on by Timo Kreuzer with continuous work on interrupt handling and other hardware issues like USB and networking issues in x64 build.
Stanislav Motylkov still continues on working on Xbox boot support ranging from fixes patches and other updates brought by him.

> 

Reviewer 5: Some other things from me (just pick what you prefer from this list):

- Security-related commits:
```
commit 7e2db7733852804b65ecc756f09727dfc8f7cce4
[CSRSRV] Improve validation of CSR API Message's capture buffers.
In CsrCaptureArguments() and CsrReleaseCapturedArguments().
By implementing the checks done by Windows 2003 (NT 5.2) described
in section "Server-Side Validation and Capture" of the article
https://www.geoffchappell.com/studies/windows/win32/csrsrv/api/apireqst/capture_header.htm
```
```
commit afb14bff33efedffa796df27fa8d288b1ee1c504
[BLUE] Add IOCTL buffers validation. Addendum to commit bfd8a848.

commit cf7981fe4e5c2cbdf62d93b6132085a3ad383881
[LSASRV] Add parameter validation in LsapSetLogonSessionData().

commit 8210396cb42420abc57f121d0c278dee8fbfc671
[MSV1_0] Extend parameter validation in LsaApLogonUserEx2() and MsvpChangePassword(); fix crash in LsaApLogonUserEx2() when LogonDomainName points to a NULL string.
```

- Some old bugs finally fixed:
```
commit 5887b170052db6af1ee86dc68f053d0c79d15028
[HALX86] Fix the "ASSERT(j < 32);" problem in HalpStoreAndClearIopm() encountered from time to time.
CORE-11921 CORE-13715 (Regression introduced by commit 2e1b82cf, r44841.)

commit e8df1a38bd09e0416a1de7006615abfd1c845c9c
[CONSRV] Fix a corruption of the CONSRV memory when converting read input events back to ANSI.
This fixes a 6-year old copy-paste bug introduced by commit b47d51c6 (r64004).
```

Reviewer 5: - Few enhancements for /SCREEN debugging display resets:
Correctly resetting the display once the KDBG debugger in SCREEN mode is being exited, and fixes CORE-12149 
```
commit bfd8a84865b7571e5e6c949b654830373651da59
[BLUE] Improve initialization and interfacing with INBV. CORE-15901

commit 0ad65796bbb57be739840c6f666cd9f8f8a1efda
[WIN32K][VIDEOPRT] Improve initialization and interfacing with INBV.
```

This allows to take step further on a compatible NT5-like stack storage.

## Kernel improvements
The NT kernel of ReactOS is the heart that is primarly responsible for the well functioning of the system and communication with the bare metal. The stability of the system drastically relies on the robustness of the kernel, that is, a kernel with less bugs.
The developers squash the bugs in the kernel to offer overall stability and better experience with each release and here we noted several improvements brought to the kernel. Various bugs to the Memory Manager module have been fixed thanks to Thomas Faber and
speaking of the aforementioned module, Vadim Galyant began the work for support of PAE (Physical Address Extension) and did some work for the Memory Manager sections rewrite.

Timo Kreuzer added CRT (C Run-Time) exception handling by importing related code from WINE. This allows for 64-bit development to go further as various bugs and random hangs in 64-bit system have been resolved. The I/O manager module of the kernel has seen

> major improvements with the implementation of letter assigning to disks rewritten by Pierre Schweitzer and Ft volumes are properly checked where Unix drives were not assigned a drive letter. Victor Perevertkin fixed a bug in I/O manager that affected the class

Reviewer 2: "storage class PnP driver" (classpnp.sys)

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/nec98.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/nec98.png" >}}

## ICMP improvements
Internet Control Message Protocol (or ICMP by short) is a protocol used by network device drivers to send network information such as errors or log status.
The implementation was rather scarce and incomplete with pieces of code unimplemented or unfinished.
The IP Helper module primarily uses this protocol and as a matter of that, it brought a lot of issues and bugs. 

Thanks to Victor Perevertkin, and with the help of Tim Crawford, the ICMP protocol implementation has seen lots of improvements.
These range from the implementation of the IOCTL_ICMP_ECHO_REQUEST I/O control code to a full  rewrite of the Icmp** routines.
As a result, the network device drivers can now handle ICMP requests in a correct manner.
This is proven in the screenshot below, which shows the tracert command-line utility now outputting complete information.

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/icmp.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/icmp.png" >}}

## Kernel improvements

> The NT kernel of ReactOS is the heart that is responsible for the well functioning of the system and communication with the bare metal.

Reviewer 6: Suggestion:
The NU kernel of ReactOS is the heart that is responsible for the correct functioning..."

The stability of the system drastically relies on the robustness of the kernel.
Every bug counts here.

With every release, the developers squash bugs in the kernel to offer a better overall stability and experience.
ReactOS 0.4.14 comes with several improvements to the Memory Manager thanks to Thomas Faber.
Speaking of the aforementioned module, Vadim Galyant did some initial work on PAE (Physical Address Extension) and contributed towards the Memory Manager sections rewrite.

Timo Kreuzer added CRT (C Run-Time) exception handling by importing related code from WINE. This allows 64-bit development to proceed as various bugs and random hangs on 64-bit systems have been resolved.
Victor Perevertkin fixed a bug in storage class PnP driver (classpnp.sys) 
and both Timo Kreuzer and Thomas Faber fixes some buffer overflows vulnerabilities. To finish with, Eric Kohl improved the device action worker code in I/O.

> Let's not forget the PnP (Plug n' Play) manager of the kernel which is also and important part not only in regard of stability the usability of the system to a plethora of hardware. Vadim Galyant added the initial headers implementation of the Resources Arbiter library which can be used by the bus

Reviewer 6: Suggestion:
Let's not forget the PnP (Plug n' Play) manager of the kernel which is also an important...

## NetKVM VirtIO bringup
NetKVM VirtIO is an NDIS 5 compatible driver developed by Red Hat Inc., which allows fast VirtIO networking in virtual machine software such as QEMU and other KVM hardware accelerated virtual machines.
Nguyen Trung Khanh, a ReactOS contributor, took over Benjamin Aerni's work of importing the driver into the source tree of ReactOS.
This provides ReactOS with support for another network interface out of the box.

## Miscellaneous changes & improvements
Other areas of ReactOS infrastructure have received lots improvements by various contributors, ranging from device drivers to software applications. Notably FreeLoader, the ReactOS' bootloader, received incremental fixes and improvements. As such Hermès Bélusca-Maïto added support for booting Linux 64-bit systems in 64-bit FreeLoader and fixed an issue where
FreeLoader couldn't read from an EXT2 volume hence preventing booting. Dmitry Borisov fixed a serious triple fault bug when ReactOS was booted up in Screen debugging mode. In addition to that, Dmitry Borisov also provided other fixes as well as added ARC-emulation support necessary for NEC PC-98 series.

> Hermès Bélusca-Maïto also fixed several old bugs, notably a corruption in the console emulation (CONSRV) layer's memory when converting input events back to ANSI and a bug in HAL where the system lead into an assertion failure sporadically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stanislav Motylkov still continues his work on Xbox boot support ranging from fixes patches and other updates brought by him. This is mainly the platform bring up, refactoring and abstraction of existing low-level code.
Hermès Bélusca-Maïto also fixed several old bugs, notably a corruption in the console emulation (CONSRV) layer's memory when converting input events back to ANSI and a bug in HAL where the system lead into an assertion failure sporadically.
```

Reviewer 7: Well, does the XBox **really** boot to desktop now binarymaster?

Reviewer: It does not without additional patches.

Reviewer 7: Well, imho it would have been more wise then to **not** advertize that!

Reviewer: PC-98 port does not boot without additional patches either.

Reviewer 7: maybe but pc-98 wasn't already highlighted in last 0.4.13, unlike XBox https://reactos.org/project-news/reactos-0413-released/

Reviewer: I just restored what Victor accidentally removed in one of suggestions.

Reviewer 7: I am not entirely sure whether that was really removed accidentally.

---
title:       "ReactOS 0.4.14 released"
author:      "ReactOS Team"
date:        2021-12-16
tags:        [ "release" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/thumb.png"
---

The ReactOS Team is pleased to announce the release of version 0.4.14.
As with every other release, we're regularly noting improvements and updates to keep you in touch with what is being done to ReactOS.
In this release, improvements range from FreeLoader fixes, Shell features, kernel fixes, NetKVM VirtIO bringup, further work on the Xbox port and support for NEC PC-9800.

Note that it took us over a year to get this release in shape and fix regressions.
As such, ReactOS 0.4.14 does not contain the very latest developments we advertised in 2021 on our blog and on social media.
Consider this a maintenance release, and stay tuned for what's coming next!

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/banner.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/banner.png" >}}

## "Send To" feature and Shell improvements
One of the main highlights of this release is the amount of improvements done to the Shell component, which makes up a vital part of the ReactOS user experience.

> Katayama Hirofumi MZ is the pioneer of the "Send To" implementation, a feature of the Shell that can be used to send files or directories to a certain location.

Reviewer: Maybe "predefined"?

In addition, "Open File Location" and "Open Command prompt here" were also implemented thanks to him.
Apart from the aforementioned features, let's not forget the bug fixes that affected the operability of the Shell.
Katayama Hirofumi MZ fixed the scroll selection and Mark Jansen improved some COM (Component Object Model) interfaces, so that certain drag and drop regressions could be fixed.
The implementations of "Send To" and "Open File Location" are shown in the screenshots below:

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/shell.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/shell.png" >}}

## NEC PC-9800 boot support
NEC PC-9800 (or PC-98 in short) is a series of 16-bit and 32-bit Japanese computers developed and manufactured by NEC.
As that type of hardware is based on x86 processors, it is a relatively easy porting target.

> Nevertheless, every port to another architecture opens up possibilities for finding and fixing bugs in the kernel modules of ReactOS.

Reviewer 5: Instead of "kernel modules" I would say the "core modules". Because the problems can be elsewhere than in the kernel.

Dmitry Borisov, a new ReactOS contributor, helped to get the PC-98 port in shape.

> While there is stuff left to be done in the development of PC-98 boot support, Dmitry Borisov made great strides to get ReactOS booting on that platform.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
While there is work left to be done in the development of PC-98 boot support, Dmitry Borisov made great strides to get ReactOS booting on that platform.
```

> The following screenshot below demonstrates ReactOS booting on Neko Project 21/W emulator.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The following screenshot below demonstrates ReactOS booting on the Neko Project 21/W emulator.
```

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/nec98.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/nec98.png" >}}

## ICMP improvements

> Internet Control Message Protocol (or ICMP by short) is a protocol used by network device drivers to send network information such as errors or log status.

Reviewer 5: Again, maybe an url? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Control_Message_Protocol

> [Internet Control Message Protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Control_Message_Protocol) (or ICMP by short) is a protocol used by network device drivers to send network information such as errors or log status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Internet Control Message Protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Control_Message_Protocol) (or ICMP by short) is a protocol used by network devices to send and receive information such as errors or log status.
```

The implementation was rather scarce and incomplete with pieces of code unimplemented or unfinished.

> The IP Helper module primarily uses this protocol and as a matter of that, it brought a lot of issues and bugs. 

Reviewer 5: "The IP Helper module" --> what is that? a service? the iphlpapi.dll ? a driver?

Reviewer: Likely iphlpapi.dll

> The implementation was rather scarce and incomplete with pieces of code unimplemented or unfinished.
> The IP Helper module primarily uses this protocol and as a matter of that, it brought a lot of issues and bugs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The implementation, primarily residing in our IP Helper API module (iphlpapi.dll), was rather scarce and incomplete with pieces of code unimplemented or unfinished.
```

Thanks to Victor Perevertkin, and with the help of Tim Crawford, the ICMP protocol implementation has seen lots of improvements.
These range from the implementation of the IOCTL_ICMP_ECHO_REQUEST I/O control code to a full  rewrite of the Icmp** routines.

> As a result, the network device drivers can now handle ICMP requests in a correct manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, the network device drivers can now pass ICMP request and response packets to the applications in a correct manner.
```

## Kernel improvements
The ReactOS kernel is responsible for the correct functioning of the operating system and interfacing with the bare metal.
The stability of the system drastically relies on the robustness of the kernel.
Every bug counts here.

With every release, the developers squash bugs in the kernel to offer a better overall stability and experience.
ReactOS 0.4.14 comes with several improvements to the Memory Manager thanks to Thomas Faber.
Speaking of the aforementioned module, Vadim Galyant did some initial work on PAE (Physical Address Extension) and contributed towards the Memory Manager sections rewrite.

Timo Kreuzer added CRT (C Run-Time) exception handling by importing related code from WINE. This allows 64-bit development to proceed as various bugs and random hangs on 64-bit systems have been resolved.
Victor Perevertkin fixed a bug in storage class PnP driver (classpnp.sys) 
and both Timo Kreuzer and Thomas Faber fixed some buffer overflows vulnerabilities. To finish with, Eric Kohl improved the device action worker code in I/O subsystem.

> Let's not forget the PnP (Plug n' Play) manager of the kernel which is also an important part not only in regard of stability the usability of the system to a plethora of hardware.

Reviewer: Suggestion from Doug
```suggestion
Let's not forget the PnP (Plug n' Play) manager of the kernel which is also an important part not only in regard to stability, but also the usability of the system with a plethora of hardware.
```

Vadim Galyant added the initial headers implementation of the Resources Arbiter library which can be used by the bus
drivers like ACPI, PCI or legacy PIC HAL. In addition to that Vadim implemented debug code both in PnP and I/O managers whereas Eric Kohl improved the PnP manager to map device capabilities to capability flags. Thomas Faber fixed a critical bug that could

> cause memory corruption in the kernel space and fixed a bad IRP (I/O request packet) handling that caused a BSoD on an Xbox console with USB enabled. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cause memory corruption in the kernel space and fixed a bad IRP (I/O request packet) handling that caused a [Blue Screen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_screen_of_death) on an Original Xbox console with USB enabled. 
```

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/nec98.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/nec98.png" >}}

## ICMP improvements
Internet Control Message Protocol (or ICMP by short) is a protocol used by network device drivers to send network information such as errors or log status.
The implementation was rather scarce and incomplete with pieces of code unimplemented or unfinished.
The IP Helper module primarily uses this protocol and as a matter of that, it brought a lot of issues and bugs. 

Thanks to Victor Perevertkin, and with the help of Tim Crawford, the ICMP protocol implementation has seen lots of improvements.
These range from the implementation of the IOCTL_ICMP_ECHO_REQUEST I/O control code to a full  rewrite of the Icmp** routines.
As a result, the network device drivers can now handle ICMP requests in a correct manner.
This is proven in the screenshot below, which shows the tracert command-line utility now outputting complete information.

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/icmp.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/icmp.png" >}}

## Kernel improvements

> The NT kernel of ReactOS is the heart that is responsible for the correct functioning of the system and communication with the bare metal.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The NT kernel of ReactOS is the heart that is responsible for the correct functioning of the operating system and interfacing with the bare metal.
```

> The NT kernel of ReactOS is the heart that is responsible for the correct functioning of the operating system and interfacing with the bare metal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ReactOS kernel is responsible for the correct functioning of the operating system and interfacing with the bare metal.
```

The stability of the system drastically relies on the robustness of the kernel.
Every bug counts here.

With every release, the developers squash bugs in the kernel to offer a better overall stability and experience.
ReactOS 0.4.14 comes with several improvements to the Memory Manager thanks to Thomas Faber.
Speaking of the aforementioned module, Vadim Galyant did some initial work on PAE (Physical Address Extension) and contributed towards the Memory Manager sections rewrite.

Timo Kreuzer added CRT (C Run-Time) exception handling by importing related code from WINE. This allows 64-bit development to proceed as various bugs and random hangs on 64-bit systems have been resolved.
Victor Perevertkin fixed a bug in storage class PnP driver (classpnp.sys) 

> and both Timo Kreuzer and Thomas Faber fixes some buffer overflows vulnerabilities. To finish with, Eric Kohl improved the device action worker code in I/O.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and both Timo Kreuzer and Thomas Faber fixed some buffer overflows vulnerabilities. To finish with, Eric Kohl improved the device action worker code in I/O subsystem.
```

Reviewer 5: here it would be "in **the** I/O subsystem".

Let's not forget the PnP (Plug n' Play) manager of the kernel which is also an important part not only in regard of stability the usability of the system to a plethora of hardware.
Vadim Galyant added the initial headers implementation of the Resources Arbiter library which can be used by the bus
drivers like ACPI, PCI or legacy PIC HAL. In addition to that Vadim implemented debug code both in PnP and I/O managers whereas Eric Kohl improved the PnP manager to map device capabilities to capability flags. Thomas Faber fixed a critical bug that could

> cause memory corruption in the kernel space and fixed a bad IRP (I/O request packet) handling that caused a BSoD (Blue Screen of Death) on first generation Xbox console machine with USB enabled. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cause memory corruption in the kernel space and fixed a bad IRP (I/O request packet) handling that caused a BSoD on an Xbox console with USB enabled. 
```

Reviewer 7: I think the explanation for BSoD (Blue Screen of Death) was good for average joe.
And specifically specifying the **first generation** XBox was most likely intentionally

Reviewer 5: indeed, because for some people, Xbox could mean the 360.

> The Kernel Debugger (KD) and related modules have also received updates from developers and contributors alike. Dmitry Borisov added ComPort library for NEC PC-98 which is fundemantal in the further development and support of NEC series. Hermès Bélusca-Maïto has finished the support for debug filters, improved `cregs` and `tss` (present only in GCC debug builds) command,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Kernel Debugger (KD) and related modules have also received updates from developers and contributors alike. Dmitry Borisov added ComPort library for NEC PC-98 which is fundemantal in the further development and support of NEC series. Hermès Bélusca-Maïto has finished the support for debug filters, improved the `cregs` and `tss` commands included in the interactive kernel debugger (KDBG, present only in GCC debug builds),
```

> The Kernel Debugger (KD) and related modules have also received updates from developers and contributors alike. Dmitry Borisov added ComPort library for NEC PC-98 which is fundemantal in the further development and support of NEC series. Hermès Bélusca-Maïto has finished the support for debug filters, improved the `cregs` and `tss` commands included in the interactive kernel debugger (KDBG, present only in GCC debug builds),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kernel Debugger (KD) and related modules have also received updates from developers and contributors alike. Dmitry Borisov added ComPort library for NEC PC-98 which is fundemental in the further development and support of NEC series. Hermès Bélusca-Maïto has finished the support for debug filters, improved the `cregs` and `tss` commands included in the interactive kernel debugger (KDBG, present only in GCC debug builds),
```

> rewrote the TSS handling code and squashed various bugs with it. Namely the issue with KDBG backtrace when a TSS switch happened during execution. Furthermore, Jérôme Gardou alongside with Hervé Poussineau brought some fixes and improvements to the KDBG module.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
rewrote the TSS handling code and squashed various bugs with it. Namely the issue with the KDBG backtrace when a TSS switch happened during execution. Furthermore, Jérôme Gardou alongside with Hervé Poussineau brought some fixes and improvements to the KDBG module.
```

## NetKVM VirtIO bringup
NetKVM VirtIO is an NDIS 5 compatible driver developed by Red Hat Inc., which allows fast VirtIO networking in virtual machine software such as QEMU and other KVM hardware accelerated virtual machines.
Nguyen Trung Khanh, a ReactOS contributor, took over Benjamin Aerni's work of importing the driver into the source tree of ReactOS.
This provides ReactOS with support for another network interface out of the box.

## Miscellaneous changes & improvements

> Other areas of ReactOS infrastructure have received lots improvements, ranging from device drivers to software applications of ReactOS by various developers and contributors. Notably FreeLoader, the ReactOS' bootloader, received incremental fixes and further support improvements. As such Hermès Bélusca-Maïto added support for booting Linux 64-bit systems in 64-bit FreeLoader and fixed an issue where

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other areas of ReactOS infrastructure have received lots improvements by various contributors, ranging from device drivers to software applications. Notably FreeLoader, the ReactOS' bootloader, received incremental fixes and improvements. As such Hermès Bélusca-Maïto added support for booting Linux 64-bit systems in 64-bit FreeLoader and fixed an issue where
```

> FreeLoader couldn't read from an EXT volume hence preventing booting. Dmitry Borisov fixed a serious triple fault bug when ReactOS was booted up in Screen mode. In addition to that, Dmitry Borisov also provided other fixes as well as adding ARC-emulation support necessary for NEC PC-98 series.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
FreeLoader couldn't read from an EXT2 volume hence preventing booting. Dmitry Borisov fixed a serious triple fault bug when ReactOS was booted up in Screen debugging mode. In addition to that, Dmitry Borisov also provided other fixes as well as added ARC-emulation support necessary for NEC PC-98 series.
```

> Mark Harmstone also brought some fixes for the bootloader so that Windows Vista can be properly booted. On-Screen Keyboard and Accessbility Utility Manager are being regularly updated by Bisoc George and at the same time he provided some fixes or minor improvements to other parts of ReactOS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
George Bișoc updated the On-Screen Keyboard and Accessbility Utility Manager and at the same time provided minor fixes and improvements to different parts of ReactOS.
```

Reviewer 7: Why stripping that Mark Harmstone Vista boot stuff?

Reviewer 2: It was not merged - PRs are still there

Reviewer: Nice catch, in fact it's not merged yet even now.

Reviewer 5: because part of it is controversial (like the correct place where to reserve a hole in the memory, as well as supporting/handling the different version-specific layouts of the `LOADER_PARAMETER_BLOCK` structure).

> Hervé Poussineau worked hard on ISA PnP (a driver component of PnP) which detects ISA devices although such driver is currently deactivated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hervé Poussineau worked hard on ISA PnP driver which detects ISA devices although such driver is currently deactivated.
```

Mark Jansen fixed a bug in comctl32 (Common Controls) module where Visual Basic 6 installer was rendered incorrectly. Eric Kohl worked on "Safely Remove Hardware" dialog manager where the peripherals are now enumerated for safely removal.

> What is particularly different between 0.4.13 and this release is the sleek performance due to obsolete fonts removed in ReactOS by Katayama Hirofumi MZ. This both reduced the binary size of this release and the RAM consumption.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What is particularly different between 0.4.13 and this release is the sleek performance increase due to obsolete fonts being removed by Katayama Hirofumi MZ. This both reduced the binary size of this release and the RAM consumption.
```

Here is a comparison between 0.4.13 (with the obsolete fonts used and loaded in memory) and 0.4.14.

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/misc.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0414-released/misc.png" >}}

> The 64-bit ReactOS port is extensively being worked on by Timo Kreuzer with continuous work on interrupt handling and other hardware issues like USB and networking issues in x64 build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Stanislav Motylkov still continues on working on Xbox boot support ranging from fixes patches and other updates brought by him. In addition to that Hermès Bélusca-Maïto fixed some old bugs notably a corruption in the CONSRV memory when converting

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Stanislav Motylkov still continues on working on Xbox boot support ranging from fixes patches and other updates brought by him. In addition to that Hermès Bélusca-Maïto fixed some old bugs, notably a corruption in the console emulation (CONSRV) layer's memory when converting
```

input events back to ANSI and a bug in HAL where the system lead into an assertion failure sporadically.

## Third Party Syncs

> ReactOS is a FOSS (Free or Open Source) operating system that abides by the general rule of being a free operating system, as in free beer, and open source where people can study the OS and contribute with code.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
ReactOS is a FOSS (Free or Open Source) operating system that abides by the general rule of being a free operating system, as in "free beer", and open source where people can study the OS and contribute with code.
```

> The 64-bit ReactOS port is extensively being worked on by Timo Kreuzer with continuous work on interrupt handling and other hardware issues like USB and networking issues in x64 build.
> Stanislav Motylkov still continues on working on Xbox boot support ranging from fixes patches and other updates brought by him. In addition to that Hermès Bélusca-Maïto fixed some old bugs, notably a corruption in the console emulation (CONSRV) layer's memory when converting
> input events back to ANSI and a bug in HAL where the system lead into an assertion failure sporadically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 5: All that section should go away? I've personally not verified when the CONSRV thing has been committed and whether it has been ported back into the 0.4.14 branch or not.

Reviewer: It has been moved a bit

Reviewer: It seems you accidentally removed me from the article with this suggestion... :sweat_smile:

> As such, ReactOS shares modules and code from other third-party open source projects are regularly updated by the ReactOS developers. The following syncs are part of this release:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As such, ReactOS shares modules and code from other third-party open source projects which are regularly updated by the ReactOS developers. The following syncs are part of this release:
```

## Miscellaneous changes & improvements
Other areas of the ReactOS operating system have received lots of improvements by various contributors, ranging from device drivers to software applications.
Notably FreeLoader, the ReactOS bootloader, received incremental fixes and improvements.

Hermès Bélusca-Maïto added support for booting Linux 64-bit systems in 64-bit FreeLoader and fixed an issue where FreeLoader couldn't read from an EXT2 volume, hence preventing booting.
Dmitry Borisov fixed a serious triple fault bug when ReactOS was booted up in Screen debugging mode.
In addition to that, Dmitry Borisov also provided other fixes as well as added ARC-emulation support necessary for NEC PC-98 series.
Stanislav Motylkov still continues his work on Xbox boot support, contributing various fixes and patches.
This is mainly the platform bring-up, refactoring, and abstraction of existing low-level code.
Hermès Bélusca-Maïto also fixed several old bugs, notably a corruption in the console emulation (CONSRV) layer's memory when converting input events back to ANSI, and a bug in HAL that sporadically caused an assertion failure.

> George Bișoc updated the On-Screen Keyboard and Accessbility Utility Manager and at the same time provided minor fixes and improvements to different parts of ReactOS.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
George Bișoc updated the On-Screen Keyboard and Accessibility Utility Manager and at the same time provided minor fixes and improvements to different parts of ReactOS.
```

The IP Helper module majorly uses this protocol and as a matter of that, it brought a lot of issues and bugs. But Victor Perevertkin and with the help of Tim Crawford, the ICMP protocol implementation has seen lots of improvements, that is, ranging from the implementation of
IOCTL_ICMP_ECHO_REQUEST I/O control code as well as rewriting Icmp** function routines. Thanks to that the network device drivers can handle ICMP requests in a correct manner.

## Mount Manager improvements

To be added.

## Kernel improvements

To be added.

## Miscellaneous stuff

To be added.

## Third Party Syncs

ReactOS is a FOSS (Free or Open Source) operating system that abides by the general rule of being a free operating system, as in free beer, and open source where people can study the OS and contribute with code.
As such, ReactOS shares modules and code from other third-party open source projects are being regularly updated by the ReactOS developers. The following recent syncs as of this release are follows.

* Wine Staging 4.18 user mode DLLs by Amine Khaldi
* mpg123 1.25.12 by Thomas Faber
* mbedtls 2.7.12 by Thomas Faber
* ACPICA 20191018 by Thomas Faber

> * BtrFS 1.5 by Pierre Schweitzer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* BtrFS 1.7.2 by Pierre Schweitzer and Victor Perevertkin
```
